So you mentioned the human condition speaking,
which you happen to be a human being who's unfortunately
not imortal that seems to be a fundamental part of the
human condition that this right ends. Do you think about
the fact that you're going to die one day? Are you afraid of death?
Uh, I,
I would say that I am not as much afraid of death as I am
of, um, degeneration. Uh, and, uh,
I say that, uh, in part, for reasons of having,
you know, seen some tragic degenerative situations,
uh, unfold, it's exciting
when you can
continue to participate and, uh,
feel like you're you're are near the, the place where the,
the wave is breaking on the shore, if you like, you know? Um, and,
and I, I, I think about, you know,
my own, uh, future potential, um, if,
if I were to undergo a, uh, begin to suffer from dementia,
uh, Alzheimer's disease or semantic dementia, or some other condition,
you know, I would sort of gradually lose the thread of that ability. And,
um, uh, so, so one can live on for several,
for a decade eight after, you know,
sort of having to retire because one no longer has,
uh, these kinds of, um, abilities to engage. And, uh,
I think that's the thing that I feared the most.
The losing of that, like the, that, that, um, the,
the breaking of the way, the floor flourishing of the mind where you,
you have these ideas and they're swimming around, you're able to play with them.
Yeah.
And, and, and, and, and collaborate with other people who, you know,
are themselves, uh, um,
really helping to push these ideas forward. So, yeah.
What about the edge of the cliff? Yeah, and I mean, the,
the mystery of it, the, the, I mean.
The migrated con sort of conception of mind and, you know,
sort of continuous sort of way of thinking about most things makes it, so that,
uh, to, to me, the, the, the, um,
the discreetness of that transition of is less, <laugh> less, less,
less apparent than it seems to be to most people. I see.
<Laugh> I see. Yeah. Um, yeah, I wonder,
so I don't know if you know the work of Ernest Becker and so on. I wonder what,
what role,
mortality and our ability to be cognizant of it and
anticipate it, and perhaps be afraid of it, what role that plays in, in our
reasoning of the world.
I think that it,
it can be motivating to people to think they have a li emitted period left. Um,
I think in, in my own case, you know, it it's like seven or eight years ago.
Now that I was,
I was sitting around doing experiments on
decision making that were, um,
satisfying in a certain way,
because I could really get closure on what,
whether the model fit the data perfectly or not.
And I could see how one could test, you know,
the predictions in monkeys as well as humans,
and really see what the neurons were doing. But I just realized,
Hey, wait a minute. You know, I may only have about 10 or 15 years left here.
And I don't feel like I'm getting towards the answers to the really interesting
questions while I'm doing this, this particular level of work.
And that's when I said to myself, okay, um,
let's pick something that's hard. <laugh> yeah. You know,
so that's when I started working on mathematical cognition mm-hmm <affirmative>
and, um, I, I, I think it was more in terms of, well,
I got 15 more years possibly of useful life left.
Let's imagine that it's only 10.
I I'm actually getting close to the end of that now,
maybe three or four more years. Um, but I'm beginning to feel like, well,
I probably have another five after that, so, okay. I'll give myself another,
another six or eight. Um, but a.
Deadline is looming and.
Therefore, but I, this gonna go in forever. Yeah. And so, um, so, uh, yeah,
I gotta keep, um,
thinking about the questions that I think are the interesting and important ones
for sure.